CODING WITH CLAUDE

I built this hobby project to learn about AI coding assistants. Since I'm completely new to AI tools,
I figured this might be an interesting writeup for others who are also new/curious, and also maybe I 
can get advice from experts.

(It's a mystery to me how other people use coding assistants! What sort of questions do they ask?
How do they interact? What best practices have they found?)

I used two AI assistants, Windsurf and Claude. I chose to make a web app with HTML, CSS and
TypeScript because I'm not familiar with them and wanted to see what AI assistants are like for
non-experts. I fell into three patterns of interaction:

(1) "Vibe-coding" for HTML/CSS, because both assistants are clearly better than me at these
technologies! I only carefully reviewed+simplified it at the very end of the project. I also
liked having the AI build a quick working prototype of a UI feature, then I throw it away
and start from scratch once I know what I'm aiming for.
  
(2) "Micromanaging" for TypeScript. I was much more hands-on. The AI would suggest code,
but I rewrote every single line myself. That's because the AI usually missed the right
abstractions -- at all levels, from within-function to overall architecture. Also the
quality of its code didn't meet my standards for elegance. It was still always helpful though!
It taught me new frameworks, language patterns, and it spotted logic bugs in my code much
quicker than I would have.

(3) "Interactive chat" for UX design. Claude and I iterated together on how the different parts of the
app should fit together (timeline, map, thumbnails, search). Claude researched user behaviors
in other photo apps, distilled these down into user needs/intents, and it came up with the
current UX. I don't really like how it is, but I don't have better ideas, and Claude's ideas
were better than mine.


TRANSCRIPT OF MY USER PROMPTS

[This transcript covers about 10% of my app's development -- after I figured out how to use
Claude /hooks to produce the log, and until I broke my log format!]

Time to start work on a new feature. When the user clicks on a thumbnail, I'd like the entire window to be heavily
greyed-out with just the full-resolution image front and foremost, occupying either the full width or full height or
both, but not cropped and not distorted. When the user clicks anywhere on this image it should disappear, going back to
the normal interface. I will work myself on getting the proper full img src. For now, let's just use thumbnailUrl as the
full img src. Could you detail a plan for how to achieve this pleae? Describe the html structure, and CSS, and how it
will be activated in javascript.

The img isn't being stretched to fit. I want it stretched so that either it occupies the full width, or full height, or
both if the aspect ratio is right.

That's good. There's one tweak needed. In showImageOverlay, it'll actually take 1-2 seconds of network traffic before
I'm able to retrieve the true img src. I simulated that with a delay. Could you put some kind of a progress-spinner
inside the overlay while we're waiting for the image to be fetched?

There are two tweaks we have to make. First, even when we assign img.src, the image will still maybe take a further
second to display. We should avoid hiding the spinner until after the image is ready.

If r.json() reveals the object to be a video (because it has a 'video' facet) then the existing tag won't work -- is
there a convenient built-in way to display video?

Can we make the video start playing automatically, without the user having to click the play button in the controls?

I discovered that some images just fail to load. I wonder if that's because they're in .heic format, and that's not a
valid "img src"?

Actually, let's try a different approach. When we fetch the driveItem, let's also ask it to expand thumbnails. Then
let's have two tags in a race. One will display the large thumbnail (stretched as before). The other will display the
true content. If the thumbnail appears first as expected, that's fine, and we can hide it once the true image appears.
But if the true image fails to appear then at least we'll have a thumbnail. We can still provide a link to the webUrl in
this error case.

Okay, after trying it out, we're going to simplify and change things as follows. I'm inspired by the fact that the
full-size thumbnail at around 800x600px is plenty good enough and we don't even need the full-size one. I wrote a revise
specification in the docstring for showImageOverlay() in @index.ts - could you read that specification, and make the
modifications?

I see two problems. (1) Click-to-dismiss the overlay should work if you click anywhere. Currently it works if you click
the image while the spinner is up, and works if you click the close icon while the image is up. But it should also work
if you click the image while the image is up, which it doesn't yet. (2) The close icon is rendered as underline capital
A with tilde on top of it, rather than a conventional close icon.

The close icon still isn't right. Now it's rendered as a with circumflex, then oe dipthong, then a dot.

The X icon works correctly. However, let's make it less intrusive:move it almost to the top-right corner, make it
smaller, and use a square mostly-opaque background instead of the current circle.

Ket's move it all the way to the very top-right. And make it smaller still. And make the background substantially more
opaque.

That's better. Also the "X" itself shouldn't be full white; it too should be partly transparent. And sorry I gave the
wrong description earlier. I didn't mean that the black background should be opaque; it should be more TRANSAPARENT.

That's looking better. Make them even more transparent please, both background and foreground.

That's great. Now we have a design issue: in the case of video, the overlay is over the top of the scrubbing bar, which
doesn't look good. What do you think we could do>

Let's first try moving it uniformly to the top of the page for both photos and videos.

Hmm... That doesn't look as good. I think the human eye finds it more restful at the bottom. Let's put it back at the
bottom for now. I like your "make metadata auto-hide" idea Let's try that.

Is the auto-hide timer starting when we start the img.src assignment? or after the image has loaded? I think it should
be the latter.

It's strange. I thought I saw in some cases the metadata auto-hid itself really quickly, but in other cases only after a
few seconds. I wonder why?

I'd like to only show metadata (1) initially, (2) if we hover over the metadata area itself. It's not nice to have it
show up for all mouse movements. I wonder, given this, if it'd be possible to do metadata showing+hiding primarily
through CSS without needing code?

Let's speed up the timer to just 1s

When you click the "full image in OneDrive" link, it should dismiss the overlay.

I think let's just give up on the metadata looks good. No solution looks good. And there's no need since (unlike .heic)
the tag we've got here shows the full video with no limitations.

[Request interrupted by user]

Oh, sorry, I said the wrong thing. I meant: give up on metadata for VIDEO, but keep it for PHOTO.

Can we put a full-screen icon for photos, like the controls already have? Could be at the top right near the Close
button, or could be at the bottom right for consistency with the video player, whichever you think will be most
predicatble and conventional to users. It'd be nice to use a conventional full-screen icon. Once again this icon should
be visible initially, and then auto-fade, only to reappear when you mouse near it. (You shouldn't need to mouse exactly
over it since it'll be small... maybe we could make it have a larger div that triggers hover behavior, and a smaller div
that shows the actual icon and handles the click?)

Actually, the full-screen button shouldn't open webUrl. It should continue to display our largest-size thumbnail. Its
purpose is just so that someone browsing their photos can see them full screen.

Two tweaks. (1) when we click to dismiss the overlay (on the photo or close button) then that should escape out of
full-screen mode. (2) The icon was wrong. I switched to normal unicode escape sequence and it works fine now. I wonder
if we could also use normal unicode escape sequence for your preferred close icon, and for the error icon?

The hover area for the fullscreen button is too small. Let's unify the hover area for metadata and close button
together, so hovering anywhere in the bottom of the image will bring up both close button and metadata. That will be
consistent with the hover behavior of video controls.

That's good. The metadata should be centered on screen; it's now too far to the left. Also let's remove the entire
metadata and full-screen icon while we're full-screen.

Now let's add the ability to use left and right buttons to cycle through photos/videos. Let's have a full-height area to
the right, with a "right arrow" icon in the middle. And likewise to the left. Clicking anywhere in this icon will
progress to the next image. We won't have these left/right panels visible initially; only when the user hovers over
them. They will work in full-screen mode. Clicking on them will progress through the thumbnails in the children of
thumbnail-grid in order. We can't rely on an "index integer" to keep track of which photo we're on, in case the user
entered overlay mode by clicking on a map marker. Instead let's keep track of which thumbnailUrl we're on, and iterate
through the children to find which if any has that url. And grey out the left/right buttons if we're first or last.
These side panels should be visible for videos as well as images. THere's a potential issue. A full-height vertical side
panel would clash with the video controls. Can we make it so that if the user is hovering over the video controls, then
side panels never appear? One cheap trick would be to say that even though the side panel is full height, it only
appears when we hover in some comfortable middle section of it.

Even though Chrome inspector shows that a side panel is positioned in the right place, when I hover it never appears
visually at all.

This is looking good. However, reviewing our code for overlay, it has become very complex. I'd like you to pull it into
a new file called overlay.ts. Make it be a class, similar to how we wrote the Histogram class that encapsulated most of
the details. It will still rely on DOM elements declared in index.html, but it will pick them up in the class
constructor. Please think very carefully what should be the minimum API for this class. I think it need have very few
items: (1) `overlay.show(item: GeoItem)` to enter mode, (2) a callback passed to the constructor `getSibling(direction:
'next' | 'prev', item: GeoItem): GeoItem | undefined` so the component knows how to deal with left and right buttons. I
think the component can handle ALL other details purely itself: everything about hover panel visibility, full-screen
behavior, videos, metadata, ...

We now need to add docstrings for every method in overlay.ts to explain (1) what it does, (2) why it's needed, (3) any
INVARIANTS it maintains or assumes

/clear

I made a lot of changes to overlay.ts. Please review my recent changes. I think that the html ids and class-names in
index.html have gotten out of sync. Please review them for correctness.

Yes please

Let's change the left and right navigation panels so they still have the large panel area in which to make the arrow
visible, but we'll make the panels completely transparent i.e. invisible to the user

With it invisible, we can now extend the vertical range of the left and right panels

Let's change the way "overlay-image-controls" looks and feels. Currently it feels like two separate areas, one for
metadata text and one for the full-screen button, both of them floating. Let's unify the visual language with that of
video playback controls: in other words, a controls area that's flush with the bottom of the area and occupies full
width; all of this entire controls area gets the translucent effect; there's no separate "island" for metadata nor
fullscreen.

When we extended the vertical side panels to be full height, it caused a problem: they now sit on top of the
controls-panel area of both images and video. Let's revert our change: go back to their previous height.

I don't think that quite worked. The overlay-nav-right and overlay-nav-left divs still prevent the image-control hover
from taking effect. Say, do we even need overlay-nav-right? Could we make do with only overlay-nav-right-hover?

Actually, let's change the nav click handlers so they only work on the nav icons, not the hovers.

Let's make a further simplification. Instead of having overlay-image-metadata > overlay-image-metadata-text,
overlay-image-metadata-link, let's consolidate it into just the outermost overlay-image-metadata. The code can
programmatically assign HTML content to it: the content will be the text, a , and an for opening in OneDrive. Let's
anchor that div to the bottom of the controls area so the will still be at the same position regardless whether there
are one or two lines of metadata text before it.

That looks great, although the font styling for text in the metadata has been lost. Could you restore it please?

Let's get rid of the close button entirely in the overlay. I don't think users benefit from it.

Do we need separate overlay-image-fullscreen > overlay-image-fullscreen-icon? Could we eliminate the outer one and make
do with just the icon?

Can you make it so when the overlay is active, then ESC will dismiss it?

It doesn't work in fullscreen. Is that because Chrome fullscreen has its own ESC handler, one whose effect is to dismiss
fullscreen but gobble up the ESC key? Or is there a different reason?

Despite your concern, I went a head and made ESC drop out of both modes. I prefer it this way.

The built-in video controls have a more subtle background than ours. Their opacity fades from full opacity at the bottom
of the control area up to zero opacity at the top. Could you try that for our image control panel, and we'll see how it
looks?

Let's rename "overlay-image-metadata" to "overlay-image-description" in index.html, and make corresponding name changes
in overlay.ts

In index.html, currently most of the child elements of "image-overlay" are specified by an "id" attribute. Could you
change that to a "class" attribute, and change the CSS in index.html accordingly, and change the Overlay constructor in
overlay.ts?

Let's simplify the styles a bit further. For class="overlay-nav-left-hover" I think we can do "overlay-nav left", in
other words use one class "overlay-nav", and another class "left" or "right". Likewise the icon could become
"overlay-nav-icon left"

I made a further simplification, to use just class "overlay-media" for both img and video tags. However now the query
selectors in Overlay constructor don't work. Could you update those selectors please?

The error icon is almost invisible, I think because it's black text on a mostly-black background. Let's change it. Also,
I the icon is wrong -- it looks like a warning sign. People often have more fun or whisical error icons. Can you think
of a good one?

We need to use unicode escape sequence, not the robot icon, in index.html source code

I think the coral color has no effect, since the robot icon is already in color.

Let's make the error text a bit narrower. I think it can be about 20 ems wide.

There's a bug in overlay.ts -- in dismiss() it sets img.src='' and video.src='' so as to "unload" their content. But
this is an invalid url, which triggers their error handlers, which causes the error popup to appear. How can we avoid
this? First idea: is there a way to unload their content which won't trigger the error handler? (I'd rather not be
adding and removing handlers dynamically)

Do we need to call this.video.pause() if we're also doing this.video.removeAttribute('src') ?

I think we've finished the overlay code now. Please use multiple sub-agents to review it from various perspectives. You
can choose the perspectives, but at minimum include (1) correctness, (2) are the event handlers in Overlay constructor
sufficient to give the right user experience, (3) are the event handlers minimal or can they be simplified, (4) is can
the CSS styles in index.html be made any more elegant.

I think we've finished work on the overlay. Please commit to github. (I don't think these issues need to be addressed).

I'd like to make it so a right-click on the map will zoom out, because I don't like the scroll wheel. Is that a
reasonable UI design? how would I achieve that? It could be right-click either on markers or map, or solely right click
on map.

In index.html there's a .overlay-image-controls section at the bottom of the page. It contains
.overlay-image-description which has text. I would like this text to be bottom-aligned, i.e. if there are multiple lines
of text then its top gets higher. But at the moment, the bottom of the text is being cut off. Could you investigate why
please?

Could we make its height be minimum 80px, but grows vertically to accommodate taller text?

I have a lot of tags on the page, some as markers, some as thumbnails. While I'm click-dragging, these imgs end up
getting selected sometimes, and colored light blue (the selection color). Can we make it so the images aren't
selectable?

I'd also like to make all text within #map-container be non-selectable.

Please push to github. The essence of this commit is that I've added a sample dataset for people who haven't yet logged
into their OneDrive.

Do you think it's a good or bad idea to make it so that if text input #text-filter as focus, and you press ESC, then it
deletes the text you had in it? (The issue at stake is: if you've already typed in a text filter, how do you quickly
erase it?)

Yes please

Please push to github. The essence of this commit is that I made sample-data show after loading (previously it required
an interaction before it was shown). You should not take credit on this commit.

When I view my page in Chrome web browser, the tab title is 'unto.me/geopic/'. Can I make the page title be 'Geopic'?

At one point I saw 'unto.me/geopic?code=...' in the tab title bar. Is that right? It must have come from the redirect in
onBodyLoad() in index.ts. But I thought that line 94 would have removed it. Were my eyes deceiving me?

Could we change that to be earlier? We could read from the URL right at the start of onBodyLoad, and strip it from the
title immediately, and then do the rest of the body.

I changed it a little more to clean up the url before ANY awaits, including the one for google.maps.importLibrary.

Can you please review line 71, and find any flaws in how it updates the page url.

Okay, that doesn't matter, since we never use hashes

Can you please review index.html. I had previously forgotten the tag. I wonder if there are any other kinds of metadata
that I should be using?

What are "open graph" tags?

Okay, please add open graph tags.

Should be preview be .png? Or is .jpg okay?

Should there be copyright or license metadata in any files?

Please add that to .ts and .html files. (Don't add it to .js files since they are auto-generated). Skip the year; simply
have "Copyright (c) Lucian Wischik

Add copyright headers to all TypeScript (.ts) files in the geopic project. The header should be: ``` /** * Copyright (c)
Lucian Wischik */ ``` Add this at the very top of each .ts file, before any existing comments or code. Working
directory: /Users/ljw/code/geopic First, find all .ts files, then add the copyright header to each one that doesn't
already have it.

You had said "add a footer to your html file" for copyright. What does that mean?

The source code comment is enough.

Tell me about favicon. I added a favicon.png file. What resolution should it be? and what next?

Okay, please push this comit.

How to set tooltip on an img in javascript?

Please review my changes for correctness.

Please push changes to github. The essence of this commit is "thumbnails in ascending date order".

Claude, please push another commit to github. This time the essence is that I gave better error dump in error screen,
and fixed bug which prevented first-time ingestion (because it failed if any folder was lacking a cache). You shouldn't
take credit. No need to confirm with me.

In index.ts function onLoginClick(), I tried to change the redirect_uri to include a query param '?action=generate'. But
OneDrive login now fails saying that this isn't a valid redirect_uri. What's wrong? Is there a way to register my Azure
Portal application to accept redirect_uri with arbitrary query parameters? Is this a safe practice?

Please push to github again. The essence of this change is an improved first-time login flow: hide sample data if logged
in; the "login to index" button now proceeds directly to login.

I've changed instruct() in index.ts to always have Geopic as the first line. But I'd like this to be inline text. My
goal is to be conventional, just like all other websites, where clicking on the title of the website takes you to its
home page. But I also want it to be inline so it's compact, minimal, doesn't take up space. Could you make these changes
please? Also, chose styling for the title which satisfies my goals, and also looks recognizably like a title.

Actually I'd like to do it differently, more similar to the logout buttons. Please see what I've written, and fill out
the TODO.

What is the choice between using window.open() and navigating any other way, e.g. location.href? And in window.open()
what does _blank do?

Oh, I don't think so. In most websites when you click the title then it navigates the current page do the site's home.
Let's do that.

Can you style the title a little differently? Currently it's the same text as normal but just bold. I wonder if some
other styling would convey that it's qualitatively different. What styling do you suggest? small-caps? something else?

Let's also pick a slightly different color. What do you think? One theme of this website app is that blue represents
photos in bounds, but that would look confusingly like a hyperlink. Another theme is yellow for photos that pass the
filter, but yellow is kind of odd. Another theme is green because that's how landmasses look in google maps. What do you
think?

This is all looking good visually. The final problem is functional. When I cmd+click on Geoclick, it should take me to a
new page, but it's not. This "don't take me to a new page" behavior is perfect for all the other buttons (login, logout,
generate) because they should be more like buttons on the same page, not like links. But the title needs to take me to a
new page. Please discuss with me what solution we can find to this.

Should the be inside the or outside?

I made the change. This is mostly good. However now the title looks too much like a link - it's underlined, and colored
in the "already visited" color. Can you style it back please? It should behave like a link (and I'd like underline
during hover) but it shouldn't change color and shouldn't have an underline when not hovered.

In readme.md, it's a markdown page on github. Can it include img links? for instance to preview.jpg?

Please review my changes for correctness.

Please review my changes to readme.md. Do they adequately explain the concepts to a non-technical user? How would you
improve the instructions to be more understandable to this audience?

I did some rewrites. Please review again. I'd like you pay particular attention to: (1) is the list of user scenarios
under "how it works" complete? are there any other features to mention? (you might review git history to see a list of
features). (2) Is the list of user scenarios achieving its goal of being a user-relevant way to describe those features?
Could it be rewritten to be more user-relevant? (3) can you think of other troubleshooting problems that the user might
face?

How would I write the unicode character 23CF in markdown?

Okay, please commit to github. The essence of this change is we made a readme

[Request interrupted by user]

Oops, I missed a bit. Please proceed with pushing to github.

Oh, I think the latest change to readme didn't make it. Please push it.

Please push to github. This change is an updated video demo.

Another push please. Minor tweaks to readme

The green color for the title isn't quite working. It looks too green. Can you remember our previous discussion? Can you
suggest alternate ways to present the logo?

Sure. First we'll try colors on their own. After that we'll try typography, then background, then border accent. Please
go one by one, tell me to try, and I'll keep note of how it looks. Once we've finished our experiments then I'll report
on all of them.

Okay. Next one?

Okay. Next one?

Okay, I got the green. Next?

Done. Of the colors, slate blue looked best. Please move on to next experiments.

Okay, go on?

Okay, continue

Okay, go on

Go on?

These backgrounds aren't working yet. They are so subtle they blend in with the grey background of the #instructions
area. If we wish to experiment with title backgrounds, we'll probably have to make the instruction area have a different
background.

Interesting. Go on?

These border accents are all striking in different ways. Go on?

Let's try a right border accent.

I'm interested in exploring bottom border accent with a slight background and medium weight.

What's the difference between small-caps and petite-caps?

What's the difference between all-small-caps and all-petite-caps?

Is there a CSS way to achieve normal caps?

I want it to display as all uppercase, not mixed.

Can you review my use of color in "h1", "h1 a", "h1 a:hover". Is any redundant?

Can you re-read the code, and see if the colors for these selectors can be made more minimal?

In h1, it's an inline element. Can I nevertheless make it have padding between it and the text that follows it?

What's the idiomatic way to say that all margins should be 0 other than the right margin?

Can we make h1 narrower?

No, I wanted to retain the same vertical height, but have the characters narrower horizontally.

I re-implemented zoom, and I added a new granularity 'weeks'. Please review my changes for correctness.

I updated in response to your feedback. Please review for correctness.

I updated in response to your feedback. Please review for correctness.

I updated in response to your feedback. Please review for correctness.

Thank you! Please push to github. Review the commit message with me before doing so. In my mind the important
contributions of this push are (1) implement the mouse zoom, (2) add a new granularity 'weeks' for the bars because just
days and months were visually too jarring, (3) augmented HistogramBarInfo with general-purpose methods that will enable
us to add useful features in future, e.g. hover over bar

Please adjust the commit message to take more credit. You, Claude, didn't just co-authored this; you also provided
expert code review, identifying numerous subtle semantic bugs.

Yes

We're going to embark upon the next feature, pan. Please read the specification for this feature, in the docstring for
class Histogram in file test.ts. I have a question for you about user interface design. In the spec we wrote that
option+drag will do a pan. I wonder why we picked that instead of cmd+drag on the mac? Could we support both? What does
other software do?

I agree that space+drag would be best. Is it straightforward to support space+drag? How can a component in a web-page
capture the space-bar? Presumably we'd want to change the mouse pointer to a hand while space is held down and the mouse
is over the histogram. Would we capture spacebar globally in this web page? (does Google Maps also want to use it?) Can
multiple separate components capture the state+events of the space bar?

I don't think this "focus" paradigm will work. The typical scenario is that the user has clicked and dragged around on
the google map canvas, hence it has focus. Then they move their mouse to the histogram area, and hold down space to
start panning, but they haven't yet clicked on it so it doesn't yet have focus. I proposed a different approach. Let the
histogram capture the state of the space bar globally, so it knows when the space bar is held down. However the impact
on mouse pointer will only be seen while the mouse is over the histogram. What do you think?

Yes. First, update the specification. We no longer need to bother with Option/Alt since they're bad. Let's instead
solely support Space+drag. Second, please add a state variable inside class Histogram to track the global state of the
spacebar, and implement the handlers you discussed to update the mouse pointer. By the way, I don't think we need a
state variable for 'this.isMouseOver' -- let's inline updateCursor into the two places it's called, and simplify it.

I simplified the code. My idea is that we don't need our own variable to track isSpacePressed nor do we need to track
mouse-enter or mouse-leave. Instead, we'll use this.container.style.cursor to record whether the space bar is pressed,
and we'll leave it entirely up to the browser to track mouse movement. Does that work, do you think?

Next we need to track the drag action. We're in planning mode. Could you sketch out how you plan to do that?

[Request interrupted by user for tool use]

Let's not bother with a powerful DragState type for now. Let's solely work on pan dragging, and store in 'currentDrag'
only the information that pan-dragging needs. Aside from that change, pleae go ahead with your plan.

This code was mostly good, but there was a problem when you panned close to the edge of fullRange: it would also cause a
zoom to occur. I altered handleMouseMove to prevent that from happening, i.e. to clip deltaDays to what's allowed.
Please review the logic extremely carefully. It is tricky to get signs (plus, minus, negative, positive) correct. You
might find it useful to work through some case examples.

[Request interrupted by user]

This code was mostly good, but there was a problem when you panned close to the edge of fullRange: it would also cause a
zoom to occur. I altered handleMouseMove to prevent that from happening, i.e. to clip deltaDays to what's allowed.
Please review the logic extremely carefully. It is tricky to get signs (plus, minus, negative, positive) correct. You
might find it useful to work through some case examples.

I edited the code. Please review for correctness. Again pay careful attention to signs.

There's a UI flaw. When the user is dragging, and they pan their mouse off the container (e.g. to the right onto the
canvas, or to the left outside the browser window entirely), then currently (1) it doesn't drag even though they're
moving their mouse, (2) we're not capturing the mouseUp event, so that when they release the mouse then return to the
container, it's still in drag mode. First and most importantly: can we handleMouseUp even if we're not in the container?
Second: to enhance the user experience, can we allow drag even while they're outside the container until such time as
they release? We might do it in the normal way that while the mouse is outside the container by any amount then it
counts as a drag in that direction at a certain rate, or whenever the mouse moves then it drags by a certain amount. But
it would be much nicer if we could track the mouse's position in MouseMove events even while it's outside the container.

I think there's no need to dynamically add and remove document listeners for mouse move and mouse up. We could more
easily always have those listeners (installed during the constructor) and change how we respond to them based on the
current drag state.

Pan and zoom are now working perfectly. Please push the changes to github. You don't need to review the commit message
with me. But the essence of this change is that we've implemented zoom for the histogram, and you (Claude) spotted some
tricky logic bugs.

I added a new specification to class Histogram. Please review this change. Then sketch out a plan for how to implement
it: what new DOM elements and styles will be needed in index.html, what events we'll need to respond to, and what state
we'll need.

Please proceed with the plan you described.

While the user is pan-dragging, the hover bar should be suppressed.

The hover is updated on handleMouseMove, which is a global handler. Wouldn't it be nicer to have some container-relevant
events for the hover? this.container.addEventListener('mousemove')? While we're at it, we should rename the existing
methods handleMouseMove -> HandleGlobalMouseMove, and likewise handleMouseUp

I made some changes. Please review for correctness.

Okay, please push the changes to github. The description is that we've implemented hover on the histogram.

Please take notes on next steps. (1) Looking at chrome network traffic, it seems to be activating all 10,000 of the
thumnail urls immediately even though they're set to lazy. If this is truly happening, we'll have to revert back to the
truly-lazy-load of an earlier iteration. (2) Maybe depending on that, when I had 10,000 items then the google map could
scroll fast enough, but at 12,000 and higher it was terribly slow. (3) I think that every folder's cache file should be
backed in local storage. It's unreasonable to re-load 100mb from OneDrive every single time I refresh the page. I was
getting "throttled" alerts, but I don't know from whom. (4) It finished 60,000 photos in 20 minutes, which is pretty
fast for what it's doing! I saw no sign of thumbnail throttling error messages. Maybe my redesign fixed that, or maybe
it wasn't even needed, or maybe the throttle errors I got back came from Chrome itself. (5) If 10,000 is indeed a limit,
then we'll be dependent on the filter UI in order to see everything. Adding and removing markers was also kind of slow.
(6) The way clusters are done, users will inevitably be clicking on a cluster, and it's inevitably useless to zoom in
too close. I should say that a maximum zoom is something like a block size. Users will be wholly dependent upon an array
of thumbnails at the bottom to show all the thumbnails in the cluster they just clicked.

[Request interrupted by user]

Actually, first off, write these "next steps" in CLAUDE.md so we have a written record. Then pursue with your todo list.

Search the codebase for lazy loading implementation, particularly looking for img tags with loading="lazy" attribute or
any lazy loading logic. I need to understand how thumbnail images are currently being loaded and why Chrome network
traffic might be showing all 10k thumbnail URLs activating immediately. Focus on: 1. Image elements with lazy loading
attributes 2. Any JavaScript lazy loading implementation 3. How thumbnails are being added to the DOM 4. Any
intersection observer or similar lazy loading code Return the specific code locations and implementations found.

Analyze the Google Maps integration code to understand the performance degradation at 12k+ items vs 10k items. Look for:
1. How AdvancedMarkerElement instances are created and managed 2. MarkerClusterer configuration and limits 3. Any
performance-related settings or thresholds 4. DOM manipulation patterns that could cause performance issues 5. How
markers are added/removed from the map 6. Whether there are any known limits in Google Maps API documentation or best
practices Focus on identifying potential bottlenecks in the marker creation, clustering, and rendering pipeline that
could explain why performance drops significantly beyond 10k items.

Analyze the current caching implementation in the codebase to understand: 1. How cache data is currently stored and
retrieved 2. Where cache files are stored (OneDrive vs local) 3. Current cache structure and data format 4. Cache
invalidation logic 5. How much data is being re-downloaded on page refresh 6. Existing localStorage usage if any This
analysis will help me design local storage backing for folder cache files to avoid re-downloading 100MB from OneDrive on
every page refresh. Focus on understanding the current cache architecture and identifying opportunities for local
storage integration.

Search for all functions related to cache management in the codebase, particularly focusing on: 1. Functions that
store/retrieve cache data 2. Functions that validate cache freshness 3. Functions that create/update cache files 4. Any
functions named like `cacheFilename`, `loadCache`, `saveCache`, etc. 5. Cache-related interfaces and type definitions I
need to understand the complete cache implementation to design the local storage integration. Show me the key cache
functions with their implementation details.

Please add these findings to CLAUDE.md so we have a written record of how to proceed

Actually, we're going to start with local cache. The reason is that all other experiments will require us to refresh the
page frequently, and downloading 100mb every single refresh will become intolerable (both for us developing, and because
we'll get rate-limited). The file we'll need to cache is about 100mb. Can you look up whether localStorage will work for
it? If not, what alternatives are there?

Please explain the tradeoffs between IndexedDB and Cache API. (Can we use Cache API from the main thread?) I'd quite
like to see a minimal code snippet for Cache API to see how they compare.

I'd love to continue testing on localhost. You say that IndexDB is more complex (handle database versioning, schema
management) and more boilerplate. I have a hunch we can streamline our code so those things aren't an issue. Please
write two buttons in index.html, and wire them up to handlers to do the work. One will fetch "all.json" from OneDrive
cache and store it in IndexDB. The other will retrieve it from IndexDB. I'd like the code to reflect the complexity you
think IndexDB will need -- if it needs to handle database versioning, schema management, boilerplate, database upgrade,
let's see it all. Then I will be able to evaluate what is the bare minimum.

Please rename those two buttons per the naming convention: testStore, testRetrieve

When will the onupgradeneeded event fire?

I think that in testRetrieve, we might as well FAIL the IndexDB read upon onupgradeneeded, and fall back to reading the
file from OneDrive. There'll be no big loss. In testStore, we don't need an index, and don't need to preserve data.
TestStore can always reasonably ALWAYS delete the old object store and then create a new one. Would that simplify
things?

/clear

In test.ts function finishAddingMarkers(), I wish to change the state to 'finished'. However typescript isn't letting me
do this, because the earlier call to startAddingIfNeeded() had a type guard assertion to show that it moved us into
'adding'. How can I solve this?

Okay, I found another way around it. Please review the entire class for correctness.

I made some changes. Please review for correctness.

In index.ts function startAddingIfNeeded(), it returns a value of type MarkerPool['state'] in the 'adding' kind. How can
I write this more neatly, re-using the existing MarkerPool['state'] narrowed to its 'adding' phase rather than copying
it all out?

Please push all changes to github. The essence of this commit is that we've implemented a pool for markers.

Please push all changes to github. The essence of this commit is that we've implemented a pool for markers.

I've finished implementing another feature. Could you push to github again please? The essence of this is (1) implement
pooling for thumbnails, (2) papered over a bug in MarkerPool where two markers had identical urls

Please make another push to github. This one's a small bugfix: still display icons even when fully zoomed out

If there's "#map-container img", it currently displays a normal "hand with index" cursor, the kind that shows you can
clock on. That's good. I'd like to change it so if there's a "#map-container div img", i.e. an img inside a div, then it
instead displays a magnifying glass icon. Can you do that?

Currently my single-page-app uses OAUth2 Token Flow to log into OneDrive. You can see that in index.html login button,
and the onLoginClick handler in index.ts. I wish to switch to Code Flow authentication, so I can refresh the access
token once it exprires in an hour. I have no idea how to do that! I don't even know if Code Flow is appropriate for a
web app. Can you look into this please and make a plan?

Please start a debug session

Currently my single-page-app uses OAUth2 Token Flow to log into OneDrive. You can see that in index.html login button,
and the onLoginClick handler in index.ts. I wish to switch to Code Flow authentication, so I can refresh the access
token once it exprires in an hour. I have no idea how to do that! I don't even know if Code Flow is appropriate for a
web app. Can you look into this please and make a plan?

Please start a debug session

[Request interrupted by user]

/mcp

No MCP servers configured. Run `claude mcp` or visit https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp to learn more.

Open the page, click the login button, and take a screenshot

Currently my single-page-app uses OAUth2 Token Flow to log into OneDrive. You can see that in index.html login button,
and the onLoginClick handler in index.ts. I wish to switch to Code Flow authentication, so I can refresh the access
token once it exprires in an hour. I have no idea how to do that! I don't even know if Code Flow is appropriate for a
web app. Can you look into this please and make a plan?

Please start a debug session

[Request interrupted by user]

/mcp

No MCP servers configured. Run `claude mcp` or visit https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp to learn more.

Open the page, click the login button, and take a screenshot

[Request interrupted by user for tool use]

I undid the oauth2 code flow for now. It was kind of complex and I'm not sure it was worth it.

Are there any good unicode glyphs which look like a circular progress bar? Like, an empty circle, then one that's a
quarter full, then one that's half full, then three quarters, then full? I want to figure out a UI for showing progress.
If there are unicode glyphs, that'd be the easiest

Those basic circles look good. The clock would be too ambiguous. Maybe I don't need a circle. Are there any other
sequence of unicode glyphs that would give finer granularity than just the five circles? Maybe a non-circular shape?
(You showed a click, but those are too subtle, and I don't think people would understand that they represent progress)

Can I use unicode combining characters to superimpose unicode characters? For instance ◔ and ◶ together?

I rewrote CLAUDE.md. Please review it.

```
$ rsync ./ [server]
bash: line 1: rsync: command not found rsync(22832):
error: unexpected end of file
``` When I try to execute rsync, I get this error. Do you know what's up?

I tried invoking /usr/bin/rsync from a Terminal, and got the same problem.

Please push everything to github

We are going to start a new feature, "img and marker pooling". The idea is that as we pan around the map, (1) we'll
rarely create any DOM elements, instead usually taking them from a pool of already-created-but-unused elements. (2) when
taking an from the pool, we'll strive to take an image that has the same src. (3) when updating the map, we won't
"unassign" marker elements if they're going to remain on the map. There will be separate pools: one of marker objects,
one of img elements to go in the map, one of img elemnents to go in the thumbnail area, one of div elements, one of span
elements for badges. Does this all sound like a good plan? My goal is to reduce the number of dynamic allocations that
has to happen when the user moves around the map. I had observed that creating lots of DOM elements is slow.

What I noticed is that Google Maps gets bad after a few minutes of interaction -- it gets flickery, sometimes markers
appear and disappear while panning around, sometimes they appear in the wrong place. My hypothesis is that google maps
wasn't built with the level of dynamic marker creation in mind that this code currently uses. I also observed that the
thumbnails definitely do slow things down: it's limited to .slice(0,40) at the moment for perf, but really it should go
up to 200 or 300. So maybe let's simplify to just three pools: one of Marker objets, one of img elements for the map,
one of img elements for thumbnails.

Search the codebase to understand: 1. How markers are currently created and managed on the map 2. How thumbnail images
are created and managed 3. Look for any existing pooling or reuse patterns 4. Find the .slice(0,40) limitation mentioned
for thumbnails 5. Identify the main functions involved in updating the map display Focus on files: index.ts, geoitem.ts,
utils.ts

Can you give me a summary of the .ts and .html changes that haven't yet been pushed?

I've been trying to learn about competitors to Geopics. I have written some questions in README.md. Could you please
read those questions, then go online to search for answers?

What is the largest practical size that someone has used on Apple Photos? Are there any reports of success with more
than 500gb of photos? more than 1tb of photos?

What is the largest practical size that someone has used on Apple Photos? Are there any reports of success with more
than 500gb of photos? more than 1tb of photos?

Could you look more carefully into people's reports with "Optimize Storage". When they had 500gb or 1tb+ of photos in
their iCloud and they used "Optimize Storage", how much space did the optimized storage take up on their iPhones?

Could you look more carefully into people's reports with "Optimize Storage". When they had 500gb or 1tb+ of photos in
their iCloud and they used "Optimize Storage", how much space did the optimized storage take up on their iPhones?

Does Android Photos have an equivalent of "optimized storage"? Please repeat your investigations for Google Photos.

Does Android Photos have an equivalent of "optimized storage"? Please repeat your investigations for Google Photos.

I have written a "TODO" in Claude.md. Please review it

Please update Claude.md accordingly

Is localStorage a cleaner solution that cookies?

Why is base64UrlEncode function needed? Why isn't btoa sufficient?

Do you have a link to official documentation about PKCE needing Base64url not Base64 encoding?

In function exchangeCodeForToken, why do we need to provide a redirect_uri? It looks like we're not being redirected
back here.

Oops! In my edits I've broken it. The fetch at line 49 is giving a "400 bad request"

/clear

Please look at index.html. The html elements for histogram are perfectly documented -- not to much, not to little. Can you
apply the same level and quality of comment to the overlay please? You will have to read overlay.ts to understand how it
works.

In my typescript code, I hit a bug where I used || instead of ??. Can you advise where it's best to use ?? and where to
use ||

Please review every use of || in every .ts file in this project. Get a subagent to evaluate whether this use is
null-coalescing or logical or. If it is null-coalescing, get two sub-agents to evaluate; one of these two will attempt
to make an argument that it should be ??, and the other will attempt to make an argument that it should be ||. Then,
evaluate the strength of those two. If there's any hint that the ?? argument is strong, please report to me.

Please remove unused variable progressPrefix from resolveThumbnails

I need to start a major new functionality. We are going to use OAUth2 code flow authentication. (Currently index.ts uses
token flow). But, i don't know if code flow is supported for web client applications. Could you figure that out, and
write a sketch implementation with a refresh token in test.ts and wire up a button to activate it from index.html

[Request interrupted by user]

start a debug session

Please push changes to github. The commit should say that this is the first draft at integrating histogram with map, but
more work is needed. You may include other smaller notes as you see fit. Please don't take credit yourself; I did this
change myself. No need to confirm with me; just go ahead.

Please look at renderGeo() in index.ts. It currently hard-codes styles for img and badges through javascript. I would
instead like it to use style classes it picks up from the stylesheet section of index.html. Can you make that change
please?

[Request interrupted by user for tool use]

Actually, let's approach it more minimally than that. Also, I've changed the code a little. Please review the DOM
hierarchy for images: some are just [?], while others are [?]. All of them reside within #map-container. First off, do you
think we could use a different tag for the badge vs the container, rather than styles? What if the badge were while the
container is ? My goal with this is to simplify the CSS selectors. I figure we can use "#map-container img" to apply to
all images. And "#map-container div" to apply to all containers. And "#map-container span" to apply to all badges. Then,
we'd need only a single classname, namely ".filtered-out", for the filtered out images. What do you think?

Great! Now let's change the style of badges to be more subtle. I'd like them to be just plain white text, no border, in
the bottom right of the image.

Thank you. The next task has to do with image dimensions, 70px by 70px. This looks good when the photo is square, but
when the photo isn't then it looks distorted. Elsewhere we'd used object-fit:cover to crop them to square images without
distortion. Can you do the same for these images please?

/clear

I attempted to implement OAuth2 code-flow PKCE, changing it from the existing token-flow. Please review all changes for
correctness.

Please push the changes to github. I'd like you to review the commit message with me first. Please look over ALL changes
that have been made to figure out what was done.

When users sign into OneDrive in my app for the first time, it shows up in the Microsoft login screen as "unverified".
Why is that and how do I fix it?

How do I submit my app to Microsoft's review process?

In index.ts function onIndexClick(), the code caught an exception with the message "All promises were rejected". It
didn't show a callstack. Could you look into three things. (1) By looking at the body of onIndexClick, can you deduce
what the exception must have been? (2) What do you know about this error message? (3) Where in the codebase do you think
the exception might have been thrown from?

Does Promise.any also throw the error?

Please study utils.ts:126 very carefully. I believe that none of the promises in 'fetches' will ever be rejected. Could
you please analyze carefully and see whether you reach the same conclusion, or whether you can prove a counterexample?

I've made a few changes. Please review them and summarize what's changed for me.

Please push to github. The changes are (1) updated video with voiceover, (2) attempted better error handling to catch
the elusive "all promises were rejected" error, (3) fixed a bug where sometimes it failed to show "this is sample data".

I've made some tweaks. Please review

Please commit to github. The essence is that I tweaked zoom behavior for colocated photos. Also added a link to the
GeoTag app for adding geotags.

We are going to work on renderHistogram() in test.ts. We already have a carefully considered user-experience
description. Next we are going to work towards a nice clean self-contained "histogram" component, one that's powerful
enough to serve all the user-experience needs. The first step in this process is to figure its interface: specifically,
figure out what properties, methods and events it will need to serve the intended user experience. Could you please put
this together under the existing heading 'HISTOGRAM API DESIGN'

[Request interrupted by user]

Hey, I told you only to make COMMENTS under the "HISTOGRAM API DESIGN" section. You should not be making code changes. I
want to review the API design with you before we proceed.

Yes, please proceed that way.

I have updated the documentation the API design with further guidance. Please review it: (1) is it correct? (2) does my
API design allow the UX to be built on top of it? (3) is it as minimal an API as we can get away with while still
satisfying the UX needs? (4) Do you have thoughts about the 'TO CONSIDER' bits?

Please confirm that if we push to github, we won't be including the 'venv' directory

Let's also exclude the .claude directory from github

Please commit all changes and push to main. But review the commit message with me before doing it.

Yes, that looks good

Please review test.ts. I want you to (1) implement the progressBar function, (2) create a button in index.html which
calls testProgress.

It's time to push to github. Could you please review all changes, and draft a commit message?

Let's design a different commit message. The things I want to go into it are (1) tweaked zooming behavior, (2) improved
feedback about throttling, (3) updated README, (4) minor technical cleanup. With this in the commit message, please push
to github.

/mcp

(no content)

Start a debug session and break when we enter onload

/mcp

(no content)

Start a debug session and break when we enter onload

Open the page, click the login button, and take a screenshot

In geoItem.ts function westmost(), can you implement it please? taking care to get the antimeridian corrct.

I tweaked it. Please review for correctness.

I have just finished writing a detailed "HISTOGRAM API DESIGN" section for renderHistogram() in test.ts. Please review
this documentation: (1) is it sufficient to power all the UX needs articulated in the previous sections? (2) is it a
minimal API design? (3) is it comprehensive enough to encompass all edge-cases of user interaction?

Do any of the UX requirements identified actually need programmatic control of setbounds() ?

Okay, let's focus on accessibility. I see that google maps has keyboard support. Please review how google maps does it:
how the keyboard support is activated (presumably its active whenever the user clicks on a google map element, or when
the tab through to a google map element? or is it global?) And review also which keys are supported. We should come up
with an equivalent design for the histogram. Don't make any changes to test.ts yet -- just chat with me.

Please push all changes to github. But before you do so, I'd like to review the commit message with me.

Let's use a simpler commit message. The only thing worth noting is: "Prepared for text-search by adding tags and using
lower-case".

Please look at function asTiles in geoitems.ts. There's a TODO starting on line 303. Can you implement it?

I think we need to adjust numTilesX and numTilesY. There are now two concepts. (1) What is the approximate number of
tiles, so we can use it to calculate tileLatSpan,tileLngSpan, and (2) what is the actual number of tiles, rooted at
gridAlignedSwLat,Lng, such that enough tiles will cover the entire area "sw...ne". The gridAlignedSwLat,Lng calculation
is already using "floor" which means that the left and bottom of the viewport might be covered with partial tiles, i.e.
there is no part of the viewport not covered with tiles. Let's do the same for the top right.

In test.ts I'm trying to use type gurds to improve the code. But there's an error on line 97. Can you explain, and
suggest how to fix it?

Please repeat your analysis but look at the new code. Look specifically at line 95. Typescript has failed to infer the
type to be 'adding'

In test.ts I have implemented function addMarker(). Please review it for correctness.

For issue 6, what is an efficient way to obtain the first entry in a map?

I made some further changes. Please review for correctness.

Please review for correctness again.

I agree with you. Please implement finishAddingMarkers. When you write the code, please document invariants similar to
how I did elsewhere in test.ts

[Request interrupted by user]

I implemented finishAddingMarkers. But there's a type guard related error on line 176. How best to fix it?

I don't think that's the problem. I made some changes, and the error still appears.

Please review https://exercism.org/tracks/jq/concepts/objects section "Similarly, there's a short hand when using
variables". See if you can simplify the object syntax `event: $event`

Please launch a debug session

In geoitem.ts lines 336-339, there's a big relating to the antimeridian. Can you figure out a fix? I'd like a clean
minimal fix, one that's done solely in a single-line expression.

what errors in the IDE current file can you see?

I'm struggling with UI design for my single-page web app. It currently has all the elements I want (time-series
histogram at the top left, map canvas to the right with images). However I haven't figured out what patterns of
interaction I want to support on the histogram. Please read the comments in test.ts on the docstring to
renderHistogram() where I've considered at length the various factors. I don't want you to make any changes yet. We're
in planning/brainstorming phase, to try and figure out the best user interaction patterns. Our job is as hard as it was
for Steve Jobs when he first invented the iPhone, and no one had ever seen a touch-controlled device before. it looks
obvious in retrospect, but it wasn't obvious at the time. Our job is to invent a way of working with histogram+map in a
way that will feel nice, obvious and natural once we've finished with it. I'd like you to start in two way: (1) Think of
further user scenarios that involve a user looking through thei rphotos where they'd benefit from both time and space
focus. (2) Critique my thoughts, question my assumptions, see if you have other ideas or paradigms.

[missing: a 3 hour back-and-forth conversation on UX design, where Claude did web searches and figured
out user intents, and we together iterated on ideas about how it could work.]